# TSBS Supplemental Guide: Apache IoTDB

**This should be read *after* the main README.**

Apache IoTDB (Database for Internet of Things) is an IoT native database with
high performance for data management and analysis, deployable on the edge and
the cloud. For more details about Apache IoTDB, please take a look at:
[https://iotdb.apache.org/](https://iotdb.apache.org/)

This supplemental guide explains how the data generated for TSBS is stored,
additional flags available when using the data importer (`tsbs_load_iotdb`),
and additional flags available for the query runner (`tsbs_run_queries_iotdb`).

## Data format

Data generated by `tsbs_generate_data` for IoTDB is serialized in a "pseudo-CSV"
format, Each reading consists of a row, the first item is the operation type represented by 0, 1.

- 0 means create timeseries with tags, the format is:
  - `0,database name,deviceID,tag,tag key and tag values`
- 1 means insert data, the format is:
  - `1,database name,deviceID,timestamp,insert values`

`deviceID` describes the storage path which is composed of several nodes.
IoTDB uses storage groups to manage data. For example, in test case `devops`,
if `measurementName` is `cpu` while `hostname` tag is `host_0`, then `deviceID`
is `root.cpu.host_0`.
`hostname` in `devops` test cases is one of primary keys, and each `hostname`
specifies a unique device, so it's selected to be part of `deviceID`. But other
tags are not so important and their values do not change during whole testing,
so they are designed to be stored in a node named `_tags` as attributes.
For more detail about how IoTDB manage attributes of a node, please take a look
at [Timeseries Management](https://iotdb.apache.org/UserGuide/Master/Operate-Metadata/Timeseries.html#create-timeseries).

The unit of timestamp in generated data is nanosecond, but it will be converted
into millisecond before insert into database.

An example for the `cpu-only` use case:

```text
0,cpu,host_0,tag,'hostname'='host_0','region'='eu-west-1','datacenter'='eu-west-1c','rack'='87','os'='Ubuntu16.04LTS','arch'='x64','team'='NYC','service'='18','service_version'='1','service_environment'='production'
1,cpu,host_0,1677628800000,58,2,24,61,22,63,6,44,80,38
```

---

## `tsbs_load_iotdb` Additional Flags

### IoTDB related

#### `-host` (type: `string`, default: `localhost`)

Hostname of IoTDB instance.

#### `-port` (type: `string`, default: `6667`)

Which port to connect to on the database host.

#### `-user` (type: `string`, default: `root`)

The username of user who connect to IoTDB.

#### `-password` (type: `string`, default: `root`)

The password for user connecting to IoTDB.

#### `-timeout` (type: `int`, default: `0`)

Session timeout check in millisecond. After session config initialization,
client will try to get response from database server to make sure the connection
is established. This argument is the session timeout in millisecond. Use 0 for
no timeout.

#### `-records-max-rows` (type: `int`, default: `0`)

Session use `insertRecords` to insert data into database. This argument is the
max size (max rows) of records. Use 0 for no limit. If this argument is 0,
`tsbs_load_iotdb` will insert all data in a batch at one time, that means the
behavior is equal to setting this arguments as `batch-size`.

**Warning!** If this value is set too small, the insertion performance will be
seriously reduced.

#### `-aligned-timeseries` (type: `bool`, default: `true`)

Using aligned timeseries for all metrics if set true. That means using
InsertAlignedRecords, which is faster than InsertRecords.

#### `-store-tags` (type: `bool`, default: `true`)

Store tags if set true. Can NOT be used if `-aligned-timeseries` is set true.
That's because IoTDB do NOT support 'attributes' and 'tags' for aligned
timeseries yet.

#### `-tablet-size` (type: `int`, default: `10`)

When tablet-size if set more than `0`, using `insertTablets` interface to load data to IoTDB,
when tablet-size if set less or equals than `0`, using `insertRecords` interface to load data to IoTDB.

---

## `tsbs_run_queries_iotdb` Additional Flags

### IoTDB related

#### `-host` (type: `string`, default: `localhost`)

Hostname of IoTDB instance.

#### `-port` (type: `string`, default: `6667`)

Which port to connect to on the database host.

#### `-user` (type: `string`, default: `root`)

The username of user who connect to IoTDB.

#### `-password` (type: `string`, default: `root`)

The password for user connecting to IoTDB.

#### `-use-groupby` (type: `bool`, default: `false`)

Used to accelerate the query performance of `single-groupby-1-1-1`.
